Notes about Dennis Ritchie:
Contributions:

Schooling:
Dennis Ritchie graduated from Summit High School following which he then
attended and graduated from Harvard in both Physics and Applied Mathematics
1963 and following it up with a PhD Mathematics five years later.[1]

Career:
Ritchie started at Bell Labs in 1967 a research division of the American
Telephone and Telegraphy Company. This company went through numerous changes
in name and ownership. However in Ritchie's own words, "Bell Labs has remained
a remarkably good place to do work that has enduring impact over the long run,
no matter what they compnay, the courts the PR types or upper management
decided should be our name and logo on a given day or year."[2]

Accomplishments: 

The C programming language
Of the two greats achievements of Dennis Ritchie the first was the C
programming language. Many in this day and age of Object Orientied programming
and virtual machines dismiss the C programming language as a primitive
unwieldy levithan, best suited for the days of the Roman Colissieum and
Stonehenge. What these pompus jack wagons fail to understand is that there was
a time in computing before we had the luxury of abstractions, and automatic
garbage collection, that there was a time when as programmers we had to work
with raw pointers and memory allocation. C is like the P-51 Mustang or the
Tommy Gun, if they were to be matched against the weapons of today they
wouldn't be able to hold their own for 20 seconds, but they were solid
reliable, and they were used by the men that saved the world from darkness.
Thats what C was, a cross platform language, that could compile on multiple
architectures, a language that provided some abstraction beyond mnemonics for
raw machine instructions. Every major modern language dervies its syntax and
structure from C, it is the grandfather of all major languages. Without C
there would have been no JavaScript, Java, Python, or C++. Without C we
would've been stuck with Pascal or BASIC as the progenitor to the languages we
use know today. All of this works comes because of the work of Ken Thompson
and Dennis Ritchie.

The Unix Operating System
With just the C programming language under his belt Dennis Ritchie would earn
his place among the annals of great programmers; however his other great
accomplishemnt, the creation of the Unix Operating System. The Unix Operating
System is the mostly widely used operating system in the world today. It runs
the servers that power the worlds most used websites, the mobile devices
carried in people's pocket, the devices that run the internet backbone, all
derivied from the Unix operating system. If there were no Dennis Ritchie and
no Unix OS the only major player in the OS game would be Microsoft, imagine a
world with Windows ruling as the undisputed lord or all personal computing
devices. The operating system that powers the Apple watch, and the Google
servers, all derivatives of Unix. 

In conclusion Dennis Ritchie is a hero of the modern age, the herald of the
future, the pioneer of the information age. We are who we are today because we
stand on the shoulders of giants, and one of the greatest is Dennis Rictchie.
